---
layout: home
---

> Words and music need only breath and spirit to live. --Pete Seeger

Do you long to twine your voice with others in song? Do you love to be outside
among trees, water, and sky?  Do you know the pleasure of gathering with
people of all ages? 

Come join the growing global community movement that is knitting the world
together through songs of love, play, spirit, and freedom. Nestle into a
beautiful setting amongst the ancient bluffs of the Driftless, where a creek
runs right through the center and we eat real food made with soul. Play, sing,
dance, and rest your bones by the fire. 

Learn with songleaders whose love for group singing inspires us all. Relax
into the voice you were born to sing with as we share beautiful, fun, simple
songs that can reshape our world. 

> We are the gift between earth and heaven
>
> We are the song between sky and ground
>
> Sing for your life and for this world we’re making
>
> Nothing is lost that can’t be found

## The music

We raise our voices together in songs that celebrate life, diversity, power,
love, the rhythms of the year, and the circle of life. We sing songs for times
when comfort is needed, and songs that remind us of our ancestors. We sing
songs to give us courage in our work to rewild the world. We sing songs from
right here and songs from far away. We sing silly songs and songs that invite
dancing. We sing songs that you can take home and sing the rest of your life.
By the circular, non-hierarchical, collaborative and harmonious intertwining
of our voices we bring light to the world.

## Our Songleaders

Ten or more dedicated songleaders will bring gems from their living
communities to teach to us. Our region is bursting with emerging songleaders
as well, and you will have many chances to offer songs as well as to attend a
panel discussion on community songleading. In this way yet more songleaders
will  surely emerge, and we encourage any inclinations any of you have to step
into this place for your community. You might just find yourself to be an
emerging songleader… 

More details, including some of your favorite songleaders’ names, will be
announced in the weeks to come.

<img style="float:right" src="images/laurence.jpg">
Very Special Guest Laurence Cole comes from Port Townsend Washington to share
with us his wonderful songs and gentle leadership. Laurence brings a wealth of
experience and inspiration to his songleading, borne of his 70+ years of music
making. Village Fire 2014 will feature many of his songs, and his presence
will make this an unforgettable year. 

Laurence calls what we do 

#### Singing Together to Nourish the Soul and Re-enchant the world with song…

<blockquote style="text-align: left">
Part of my mission is to re-acquaint people with their birthright and natural
ability to make beautiful and meaningful sound together. Most of the songs
I’ve written are short, easy to learn, chant-like songs with several layers
that fit over and around each other in interesting and pleasurable rhythmic
and harmonic challenges that make them fun to sing. Group singing is one of
the most ancient and primal “technologies of belonging” that we humans have
been using since our earliest times, possibly before speech itself. When we
make joyous and passionate song together, it nourishes our souls and offers an
enlivening gift back to the natural world that made us and gives us our
sustenance and our very being. When such an exchange is genuinely made, and
the song finds its natural ending, often there is a sweet, lively silence in
which we simply stand and hold the “enchantment,” the sense of deep and
genuine communion.
</blockquote>

## The Schedule  

Arrive anytime on Thursday May 29th. Our first shared meal is a Thursday
evening potluck; all meals Friday, Saturday, and Sunday will be prepared on-site from
whole ingredients with loving hands. Our last meal is Sunday lunch on June 1,
followed by our closing ceremony.  During the daytimes our songleaders will
offer a variety of themed song sessions, from relaxed to rousing. Every song
will be accessible and taught to all, mostly by ear. By the evening fires we
will gather again to share still more songs, taking turns among any who have a
song to lead or suggest. Be you a learner or a leader, you are warmly
welcomed. 

## What Else?

Time for walking around in the woods. Time to play games and run around. Time
to meet new friends. Time to sit around the campfire. Time to go wading in the
creek. Time to stretch or practice yoga. Time to tell stories and jokes. Time
to eat slow meals. Time to relax. Time to re-create our world in love and joy. 

## Who is Invited?   

Everyone is welcome. No singing background is necessary whatsoever. We will be
a mix of experienced singers and new singers, and you won't believe how great
we'll sound together. We will be a mix of city and rural people, and we will
love getting to know each other. We will be a combination of many backgrounds,
and we will be glad for it all. We will be a mix of old, young, and in-between
people, befriending each other through the play of song. 

## The Setting  

Camp Tahigwa is an old camp on 300 acres of expansive hills, hardwood forests,
limestone cliffs, caves, and a meandering trout stream. From the moment we
arrive we will begin to create the community we love, welcoming each other and
opening our circles to include all. We will make a home there and work
together to care for the land, water, creatures, and people of our community.

## Lodging

There are many options, all of them rustic. All options are available on the
same sliding scale. You can reserve spaces with friends and family.

* Camp right near to base camp or down the path in a more secluded area. 

* Stay at ‘Polly’s Place’, a group of 4 cabins with ??? bunks each. This is
  about a 5 minute walk from base camp. 

* Stay right at the main lodge, in the same building as the kitchen, where
  there are ??? bunks on the second level. 

* Stay at the ‘Staff House’ where there are 2 private rooms on the main level
  and a room full of double futons downstairs. 

* Stay in the ‘Tree Houses,’ about ??? minutes walk from base camp. 

## Accessibilty   

??? Please ask in advance with regard to any of your needs. 

## Food  

We can provide 8 meals for up to 150 people. (we need to know by May 24 (Liz ask Jim about this date, and more food description…). These vegetarian meals will include locally grown, organic ingredients. More info about the menu will be available in the coming months.  

If you prefer, you can bring food and a campstove and make your own food at your campsite. 

Our cook-friend is keeping the food cost down by inviting our help in the kitchen, and so we’ll need everyone who doesn’t already have another role at camp is to spend at least one meal helping in the kitchen. This will be part of the fun, of course! More details to come. 

## Cost

We offer a sliding scale, knowing that all will pay and help this event
sustain itself as they are able. 

Register for camping only: $60-$120. Register for camping and food: $90-$180.
(Our online ticketing system will add a 5% administrative fee, or you can
avoid that by sending a check). FAMILY RATE??? 
